# Sudoku

A small game, (not really, it's a lie, it's a massive freaking game), made to entertain your brain 🔥.

In this project I made lots of achievemnts, such as: algorithms, problem solving, new CSS properties for me, responsiveness, documentating, and more, was such a wonderful experience 👩🏻‍💻.


What's Sudoku?
Sudoku is a logic-based and numerical puzzle game, defined by its grid table.

In this game you'll be provided by a set of digits in a grid table, then you'll be asked to fill the empty grids, hence solving the puzzle.

The game is split into 9 rows, columns, and squares, where each of which contains 9 grids.

How to Play
The goal of a Sudoku Puzzle is to fill all empty grids with digits from 1 to 9.

Rules are simple: each row, column, and square, should only contain digits from 1 to 9, without repeating any digit more than once.

When you start a new Sudoku puzzle, you're asked to choose certain difficulties that range from Easy up until to Evil, except for one of them which's not a real difficulty, and it's called Creation.

Creation Difficulty allows you to insert your own Sudoku Puzzle, to let the AI solve it for you, however, if you place any digit out of order, it wouldn't work obviously.

Website Guide
Currently the website is just a mere prototype, but it features almost everything of the essentials, but it lacks some features: such as the Navigation Bar Button that's within the webstie header.

Use the New Puzzle Button to start a new puzzle, and the Solve Puzzle Button to solve the puzzle if you couldn't solve it by yourself.

Whenever you create a new puzzle, a Timer starts ticking, indicating how long it'll take you to solve the puzzle, however, if you want to stop the Timer you could by toggling the Timer Button, but that'd prevent you from continuing to solve the puzzle, till you toggle it back again.


Notes Button:
Lets you toggle between the state of taking notes or assigning digits.

Taking notes can be useful to remember the digit that each grid may have.


Erase Button:
Helps you to erase assigned digit from the selected grid when you've gone mistaken.

You cannot erase the grids that're generated by the puzzle though.


Hint Button:
Gives you a hint to solve the puzzle by giving you the answer to a random grid, it can also overwrite a grid you've assigned a wrong value to before.

This button can only be used for a maximum 3 numbers of time for each new puzzle.

Accessibility
If you're on a mobile device, you're likely to have no keyboard, so to fix this, the I introduced a set of keypads to allow accessibility for everyone.

However, if you have a keyboard, you may have the luxury to use those shortcuts:

or

W
to move upwards.

or

S
to move downwards.

or

D
to move to right.

or

A
to move to left.


Enter
or

Space
to select or deselect a grid.

ESC
to deselect a grid.


All of these

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
to insert a digit to the selected grid.


+
to toggle between insertion and taking notes.

-
or

Delete
or

Backspace
to erase the value of a grid.

/
to ask for a hint.

=
to give up let the AI solve the puzzle.

Creator of the Website
All credits go to ǝɯɐɥs∀,, AKA: @AshameTheDestroyer.

You can visit my GitHub profile by clicking the username above.

Huge thanks for visiting my website project.
